so I watched Mark Zuckerberg at Congress
and you know he's a kind of a convenient
Whipping Boy let's say for the
conservatives and you know no doubt he's
made his errors and some of those he's
publicly admitted although I have some
sympathy for him because my suspicions
are that the typical person including
the typical corporate magnet when
they're approached by high order
governmental agencies and asked to
comply because of reasons of National
Security especially 5 years ago would
have listened you know you might think
you're the one person who would have
withstood that pressure but it's like I
don't think so and asking Mark to do
that I think that's too much to ask for
someone especially under those
circumstances because he didn't
understand the full extent of his social
media Enterprise or how to regulated and
he certainly didn't understand that he
was being asked to do corrupt things by
a government that was hellbent on a
certain form of censorship having said
all that it's not like we know how to
deal with this we have these new
communication Technologies Facebook and
Instagram and Tik Tok and x and the
narcissistic Psychopaths have free reign
and that's eded by their anonymity and
by the algorithmic expansion of their of
their troublemaking but it's not like
anyone knows what to do about that right
because when you tilt towards control
well then you have the problem of the
suppression of free speech which is a
real problem like that's not trivial and
if you just let there be a free-for all
well then the Bad
actors have a dis proportionate effect
and we don't know what to do about that
like one of the things I've thought
through for what it's worth is that I
think it's a big mistake to put the
anonymous people with the real people
you mean like trolls or just faceless
accounts like B faceless I think that
social media networks should separate
the faceless accounts from the verified
identities well it blows out it blows
out millions of years of primate
reciprocity and tribal yes and that
actually turns out to be quite a problem
right if I can't hold you accountable in
any matter for what you do all that does
isely what it does say it to my face
right right while people are much more
civilized face to face for exactly those
reasons all those mechanisms kick in I
mean we know we know perfectly well this
is actually valid social psychological
research if you anonymize Ordinary
People the worst sides of their
character come forward and like a lot of
what regulates us is that implicit
requirements signified even by facial
expression in face-to-face contact
that's indicative of the desire for
reciprocity there have been studies on
that with dating apps right that people
are ghosting and doing all sorts of
attrocious behaviors to each other on
Tinder because it's a random dating pool
of of data points in the past I went on
a date with you because you were my best
friend sister or met at church or there
was something in our neighborhood or
region and and relational networks and I
didn't want to pee in that pool yes
precisely well versus just swipe for
another one it's also the case see we
also overestimate the degree to which
moral control is internalized you know
we like to think that she back to n we
like to think that if we're good people
it's because we control ourselves it's
like that's not right really it it it's
more subtle than that there's some of
that that's correct in that people do
have a conscience and sometimes abide by
it but the reason that the typical good
person is good is because they're
socialized enough to be socially
acceptable or even desirable and and
what that means is that a ring of people
surround them constantly and that means
they can Outsource the problem of the
regulation of their behavior to the
crowd so for example while you and I are
talking super ego it's but it's an exter
instead of the super ego because while
I'm talking to you for example I'm
watching your eyes I'm watching your
face you're signaling to me constantly
whether you're still engaged in the
conversation whether you're thinking of
something else if we're turn-taking
properly and if I'm attend Ive and
you're there then I can use those
momentto moment operations or
observations to regulate my behavior
that's not internal right it's a dynamic
that's playing out between us and much
of the manner with with mirror neurons
and micro muscles of the face and affect
and posture and and vag things all of
that right it's deeply mirrored right
and so the upshot of that is that I
don't have to undertake a tremendous
amount of the complex problem of
regulating my own behavior as long as
people can stand having me around
because they'll do that for me and all I
have to do is pay attention and so we do
Outsource a lot of moral regulation to
the community and that's fine but what
it does imply is that so you suggesting
that's sort of vigotsky and Scaffolding
of our of our good behavior is is each
other and and well it's also partly the
demand of course it's partly the demand
for the continuation let's say of the
infinite game you know I mean if I have
a friend and I'm a kid and I'm playing
one-on-one basketball with him you could
say that each basketball bout is a
finite game in that I could win it or
lose it but the Friendship at least in
part could be a sequence of those games
and the rule for a sequence is something
more like well try being a good sport
and fun to play with which is a well
that's way different than win right it
includes winning because if I if we're
going to play I would like you to try to
win because part of being a good sport
is playing full out exactly exactly in a
fair game in a fair game and the fair
part of it is a nod to that higher order
morality that's part of say an infinite
game rather than a finite game but but
all of that's embedded and embodied in
all of our social communicative
practices all the time the psychopathic
types and the narcissistic types they
just use that to manipulate right
they're not using it to play a finite
game and or to play play an infinite
game and this is interesting to they use
which bit well they whatever information
they derive from the social interaction
they just put to their own self-serving
purposes right they're just using it to
facilitate manipulation and you might
ask this is a perfectly good question
well why not do that this is why people
like Andrew Tate are attractive let's
say to the incel crowd it's like if I
can manipulate you and I can get what I
want then why the hell shouldn't I do it
that's just Will To Power 101 yeah
precisely why shouldn't I take advantage
of that why shouldn't I lie and cheat
and steal if that if it means I get my
way well part of the answer to that is
well that might work momentarily but
you're also playing an infinite game
with yourself and we know perfectly well
that the the typical outcome of the
psychopathic pattern of interaction is
negative for the psychopath himself
they're incapable of learning from
experience for example so they repeat
their errors they don't don't modify
their own behavior and so if you're a
psychopath and a narcissist and macu
valan you can optimize
certain forms of short-term return but
it's a really bad medium to long-term
game so even even if you don't include
other people in the purview of your
moral
sentiment if you're a psychopath you
dispense with your future self that's
why so many of them end up in prison
well okay so so you probably know these
stats stone cold but right so so large
numbers of psychopaths end up in prison
then also what one three fortune, CEOs
are I doubt that but doubt it yeah no I
don't believe that I don't believe that
I think that's overblown and I think
there's a lot of implicit leftist anti-
capitalist idiocy in those studies that
doesn't mean there aren't plenty of ma
of Alan people some of whom occupy
positions of power but the problem is
it's not
a to become you know this you know this
to become successful in any Enterprise
that iterates you can't screw people
over not very well cuz they remember and
people have evolved modules for
remembering cheaters like we're very
good at remembering cheaters and so most
people who are engaged in reciprocal
complex reciprocal social interactions
can't be Psychopathic because they get
caught so can I can I ask you a question
on the on the capitalist thing that you
just men yeah because i' I've heard you
say a couple of things in I don't know
however long the last couple of years
one was I think it might have been in
your conversation with Elon talking
about any uh sort of Neo malth Fusion
we've got too many people question right
and that being sort of what you was
describing as sociopathic and then
something along the lines
of capitalism and individual achievement
attainment right being a noble and
virtuous good right and therefore you
know High net worth CEOs billionaires
Etc should be valorized you know not not
kneecapped right which in my reading of
you I took to be sort of against tallest
poppy gets whacked socialism right
you're saying hey you have to you have
to preserve space and valorize Humanity
we can't hate ourselves right that on
the population question and if there is
somebody who is ingenious creative you
know bringing value to society they
shouldn't be kneecapped or you know
regressive tax you put them in positions
where you can exploit them no I'm
serious this is the reason for
meritocracy in places like Harvard you
know because the reverse view is well um
Everybody deserves a chance let's say
and look it's not like there's nothing
to be said about that but it isn't that
we're awarding positions at
Harvard because we're benefiting the
people who get the positions that
happens that's not the reason the reason
we pick the smartest and most competent
possible people we can to educate deeply
is so that everybody else can benefit
from their ability that's the reason the
reason for meritocracy isn't to reward
the meritocratic that's necessary
because otherwise they'll stop being
productive but you know you know there's
a predo distribution in terms of
productivity and the predo distribution
is a vicious game the square root of the
number of people in an Endeavor do half
the work so if you have 10,000 employees
doing one thing a hundred of them do
half the work it's like you want to
reward those hundred because the whole
10,000 and then beyond depend on them
[Music]